(DOCSP-21048): Java SDK -> Kotlin SDK Migration Guide, testing tables (#1690)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/kotlin/migrate-from-java-sdk-to-kotlin-sdk.txt

.. _kotlin-migrate-from-java-sdk-to-kotlin-sdk:

===========================================
Migrate from the Java SDK to the Kotlin SDK
===========================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

The Java SDK and the Kotlin SDK differ in many ways. On this page, you'll
find a high-level comparison of most of the ways the SDKs differ.

> Opening Realms

Reviewer: I would add a section first about the architectural differences since they drive a lot of changes in the API and address the biggest complaints we had with the Java SDK.

* Frozen-by-default: All objects are now frozen unless fetched from inside a write transaction.
* All Realm instances, objects, query results and lists can now be transferred across threads.
* You now only need 1 Realm instance, no need to open and close Realms in individual threads.

Author: Thanks, added a section on this.

--------------

The Java SDK automatically detects Realm Object Models defined in your
application, and uses all of them in the schema of opened realms unless
you specify otherwise. The Kotlin SDK requires you to manually specify
the Realm Object Models to use in your realm schema. Additionally:

- The Java SDK used :file:`RealmConfiguration.Builder().build()` to
  generate instances of :file:`RealmConfiguration`. With the Kotlin SDK,
  use the :kotlin-sdk:`RealmConfiguration.with()
  <{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/-realm-configuration/-companion/with.html>`
  companion method :file:`RealmConfiguration` instead.

> - The Java SDK used the static :file:`Realm.getInstance()` method to

Reviewer: Also Kotlin SDK doesn't have the concept of `default configuration` so e.g. `Realm.getDefaultInstance()` and Realm.setDefaultConfiguration()` are no longer available. Basically, they are not required as you Realm is now a global singleton.

  open a realm with a given config. With the Kotlin SDK, use the static
  :file:`Realm.open()` method instead.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.open-a-realm.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.open-a-realm.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

Optionally, use :kotlin-sdk:`RealmConfiguration.Builder
<{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/-realm-configuration/-builder/index.html>`
to customize your configuration even more:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.open-a-realm-advanced.kt
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable: false
   :caption: Kotlin SDK

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Open & Close a Realm <kotlin-open-and-close-a-realm>`

Realm Object Models
-------------------

Both the Java and Kotlin SDKs declare Realm objects the same way: extend

> :file:`RealmObject`, and annotate fields with properties like primary keys

Reviewer: This is not strictly true. In the Kotlin SDK, we no longer have a base class you need to extend. This was a common complaint in Java...now there is just an interface.

Author: Also curious how this differs from the existing `RealmModel` implementation option in the Java SDK.

Reviewer: I guess there is a bit confusion between extension and inheritance...they look similar in Kotlin

```
// Inheritence
class Person : RealmObject { }

// Extending base class
class Person : RealmObject() { }
```

I think people mostly complained about this out of principle (rather than a practical concern)... which was why we introduced the `RealmModel` interface in Java. 

For Kotlin we are taking advantage of "default methods" in interfaces which means that we can provide functionality even though you just implement an interface.

The primary concern people have is that by extending a base class you are tying the class to the library, but you are doing that just by using the interface and by using our annotations...so the argument is a pretty flawed...but people were pretty vocal about it. 

This is also why we are probably going to provide projections at some point that doesn't have any Realm code at all, so it is possible to completely separate classes from Realm...but that is a future project.

Also, base classes prevent you from having your own base class...which we don't support right now...but is something we also want to do.

But to my comment... I guess I was mostly objecting to use the word `extend` which indicates a base class. You would use `X implements Y` if it is an interface.

Author: This makes perfect sense, thanks for all of the explanation. I've got a fix coming shortly that adds a *little* bit of this and frames it as an advantage.

and indexes:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/Sample.codeblock.realm-object-model.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.realm-object-model.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Schemas: Supported Types <kotlin-supported-types>`

Relationships
-------------

Both the Java and Kotlin SDKs declare relationships through Realm object
fields:

One-to-One
~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/Child.codeblock.one-to-one-relationship.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.one-to-one-relationship.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

> One-to-Many

Reviewer: I would also mention lists of primitives here since this got a major upgrade as we now understand the Kotlin typesystem...e.g. `RealmList<String>` and `RealmList<String?>` is understood instead of needing to use the `@Required` annotation.

Author: Covered in a change in response to an above comment.

~~~~~~~~~~~

With the Java SDK, you could define one-to-many relationships with fields
of type :file:`RealmList`. The Kotlin SDK still uses fields of
type :file:`RealmList`, but you should instantiate :file:`RealmList`
instances with the :kotlin-sdk:`realmListOf()
<{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/realm-list-of.html>` companion method.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/Kid.codeblock.one-to-many-relationship.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.one-to-many-relationship.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

Writes
------

The Kotlin SDK introduces new names for the methods that write to realms.

Async
~~~~~

With the Java SDK, you could write asynchronously to a realm with
:file:`realm.executeTransactionAsync()`. The Kotlin SDK uses

> :kotlin-sdk:`realm.write()

Reviewer: Maybe mention that it is a suspend function?

          :copyable: false

Sync
~~~~

With the Java SDK, you could write synchronously to a realm with
:file:`realm.executeTransaction()`. The Kotlin SDK uses
:kotlin-sdk:`realm.writeBlocking()
<{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/-realm/write-blocking.html>`:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.write-sync.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.write-sync.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

.. seealso::

   - :ref:`Create a New Object <kotlin-create-a-new-object>`
   - :ref:`Modify an Object <kotlin-modify-an-object>`
   - :ref:`Delete an Object <kotlin-delete-an-object>`

Queries
-------

There are several differences between queries in the Java SDK and queries
in the Kotlin SDK:

- With the Java SDK, you could query objects in realms using a fluent
  interface or :ref:`Realm Query Language <kotlin-query-language>` (RQL).
  The Kotlin SDK only uses RQL.

- The Java SDK uses :file:`realm.where()`

>   to query realms, whereas the Kotlin SDK uses :kotlin-sdk:`realmQuery.query()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to query realms, whereas the Kotlin SDK uses :kotlin-sdk:`realm.query()
```

  <{+kotlin-local-prefix+>io.realm/query.html>`.

- With the Java SDK, you could query asynchronously with

>   :file:`realmQuery.findAllAsync()` and :file:`realmQuery.findOneAsync()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :file:`realmQuery.findAllAsync()` and :file:`realmQuery.findFirstAsync()`.
```

  In the Kotlin SDK, query asynchronously with
  :kotlin-sdk:`realm.asFlow()
  <{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm.query/-realm-element-query/as-flow.html>`.
  Once you have a flow of results, you can `collect
  <https://kotlin.github.io/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-core/kotlinx.coroutines.flow/collect.html>`__
  the results.

- With the Java SDK, you could query synchronously with

>   :file:`realmQuery.findAll()` and :file:`realmQuery.findOne()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :file:`realmQuery.findAll()` and :file:`realmQuery.findFirst()`.
```

  :kotlin-sdk:`realmQuery.find() <{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm.query/-realm-element-query/find.html>`.

Filters
~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-filters.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-filters.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

Aggregates
~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-aggregates.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-aggregates.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Realm Query Language <kotlin-query-language>`

Deletes
-------

In both SDKs, you can only delete live objects. The Kotlin SDK provides

> :file:`realm.findLatest()` to make it easy to access a live version of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:file:`mutableRealm.findLatest()` to make it easy to access a live version of
```

Author: Never mind -- for some reason, I was having trouble bringing it up with search. But we already cover it in the frozen architecture documentation. I'll copy this example over to that section to give a better example of the method, though.

any frozen object.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.deletes.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.deletes.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

.. seealso::

   - :ref:`Delete all Objects of a Type <kotlin-delete-all-objects-of-a-type>`
   - :ref:`Delete Multiple Objects <kotlin-delete-multiple-objects>`
   - :ref:`Delete an Object <kotlin-delete-an-object>`

Notifications
-------------

In both SDKs, you can subscribe to change to collections of results.
With the Java SDK, you could use :file:`realmResults.addChangeListener()`

> to receive notifications whenever an element of a result set changes.

Reviewer: The Java SDK also had both RxJava support through `asFlowable()` and kotlin extensions for converting to flows using `toFlow()`. Most people used these rather than change listeners directly.

Author: Added these examples as well, and transitioned into the consolidation of all of these notification interfaces into `asFlow()`.

The Kotlin SDK provides a similar interface with :kotlin-sdk:`realmResults.asFlow()
<{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/-realm-results/as-flow.html>`.
Once you have a flow of results, you can call `collect
<https://kotlin.github.io/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-core/kotlinx.coroutines.flow/collect.html>`__
to subscribe to changes. Any object of type :file:`UpdatedResults` emitted
by the flow represents a change to the results set.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.notifications.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.notifications.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

> Threading

Reviewer: Maybe reference this from the intro section i proposed?

---------

With the Java SDK, realms, Realm objects, and results cannot be passed
between threads. The Kotlin SDK freezes these objects by default, making
them thread-safe. Unlike the live objects used by the Java SDK, the
frozen objects found in the Kotlin SDK do not automatically update when
underlying data changes. You must use notifications to subscribe to
updates instead.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - Java SDK
     - Kotlin SDK

   * - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.threading.java
          :language: java
          :copyable: false
     - .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.threading.kt
          :language: kotlin
          :copyable: false

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Frozen Architecture <kotlin-frozen-architecture>`

Migrations
----------

With the Java SDK, migrations were a manual process. The Kotlin SDK
automates migrations, but also gives you the ability to override those
automatic migrations when necessary.

> 

Reviewer: Not really...the schema migration is automatic, similar to Swift, JS and .NET. We just allow you migrate data just like they do.

Author: Rephrased this to make it clear that you'll never really "override" the automatic migrations, just supplement them.

.. _kotlin-migrate-from-java-sdk-to-kotlin-sdk:

===========================================
Migrate from the Java SDK to the Kotlin SDK
===========================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview

> --------

Reviewer 2: worth mentioning in the overview section that the new Kotlin SDK differs from the Java SDK (Kotlin). i think a note would do.

Author: Good point. I just added a note above; take a look when you get the chance.

Reviewer 2: i'd add a link to the kotlin SDK docs homepage toward the bottom of the note. otherwise seems good to me

Author: Added! Especially since this page is where many folks will first see the Kotlin docs, I think a link to the landing page is a good way to go. Also adding a link at the bottom about "next steps".

The Java SDK and the Kotlin SDK differ in many ways. On this page, you'll
find a high-level comparison of most of the ways the SDKs differ.

> 

Reviewer 2: i think would be good to include a paragraph why a developer should consider migration.

Reviewer 2: even if the answer is obvious to a java developer, it's not obvious to me :)

Author: Any suggestions here? I want to avoid explicitly saying "you should move to the kotlin SDK, java SDK SUCKS" because the Java SDK is still more feature complete and the Kotlin SDK is still in alpha (soon to be beta). Maybe something that boils down to "the Kotlin SDK is the future" without sounding too marketing-y?

Reviewer 2: hmm idk. why don't you ask ian/product for their thoughts there so we don't have to make marketing-y decisions. 

that can be a fast (or not so fast follow) to this PR anyways.

Author: This is now covered in the intro note.

> Architecture
> ------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kotlin SDK Architecture
-----------------------
```

The Java SDK provided live objects, queries, and realms that
automatically update when underlying data changes. The Kotlin SDK still
provides this live interface in write transactions, but otherwise relies
on a new frozen architecture that makes Realm objects easier to work

> with. With this new architecture, you'll notice a few differences:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with. With the Kotlin SDK architecture, you'll notice a few differences:
```

Reviewer 2: i think it'd also be beneficial to say what it means for an object to be frozen in a sentence before "With this new architecture..."

> - **Frozen by default**: All objects are now frozen. You can still obtain

Reviewer 2: word choice. what does obtain mean here? 

maybe access? 
```suggestion
- **Frozen by default**: All objects are now frozen. You can still access
```

  live objects within a write transaction, but passing a live object out
  of a write transaction freezes the object.

- **Thread-safety**: All realm instances, objects, query results, and
  collections can now be transferred across threads.

- **Singleton**: You now only need one instance of each realm.
  :ref:`No need to open and close realms on individual threads.
  <kotlin-migration-threading>`

.. seealso::

>    :ref:`Frozen Architecture <kotlin-frozen-architecture>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`Kotlin SDK Frozen Architecture <kotlin-frozen-architecture>`
```

   
   * - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Java SDK (Kotlin)
             :tabid: java-sdk-kotlin

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.open-a-realm.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

          .. tab:: Java SDK (Java)
             :tabid: java-sdk-java

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.open-a-realm.java
                :language: java
                :copyable: false
     - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Kotlin SDK
             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.open-a-realm.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

Optionally, use :kotlin-sdk:`RealmConfiguration.Builder
<{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/-realm-configuration/-builder/index.html>`
to customize your configuration even more:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.open-a-realm-advanced.kt
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable: false
   :caption: Kotlin SDK

.. seealso::

>    :ref:`Open & Close a Realm <kotlin-open-and-close-a-realm>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`Open & Close a Realm (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-open-and-close-a-realm>`
```

Realm Object Models
-------------------

Both the Java and Kotlin SDKs declare Realm objects the same way: extend
:file:`RealmObject`, and annotate fields with properties like primary keys
and indexes:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Java SDK (Kotlin)
             :tabid: java-sdk-kotlin

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/Sample.codeblock.realm-object-model.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

          .. tab:: Java SDK (Java)
             :tabid: java-sdk-java

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/SampleJava.codeblock.realm-object-model.java
                :language: java
                :copyable: false
     - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Kotlin SDK
             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.realm-object-model.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

.. seealso::

>    :ref:`Schemas: Supported Types <kotlin-supported-types>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`Supported Schemas Types (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-supported-types>`
```

                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

Sync
~~~~

With the Java SDK, you could write synchronously to a realm with
:file:`realm.executeTransaction()`. The Kotlin SDK uses
:kotlin-sdk:`realm.writeBlocking()
<{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/-realm/write-blocking.html>`:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Java SDK (Kotlin)
             :tabid: java-sdk-kotlin

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.write-sync.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

          .. tab:: Java SDK (Java)
             :tabid: java-sdk-java

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.write-sync.java
                :language: java
                :copyable: false
     - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Kotlin SDK
             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.write-sync.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

.. seealso::

>    - :ref:`Create a New Object <kotlin-create-a-new-object>`
>    - :ref:`Modify an Object <kotlin-modify-an-object>`
>    - :ref:`Delete an Object <kotlin-delete-an-object>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - :ref:`Create a New Object (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-create-a-new-object>`
   - :ref:`Modify an Object (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-modify-an-object>`
   - :ref:`Delete an Object (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-delete-an-object>`
```

             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-filters.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

Sort, Distinct, Limit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Java SDK (Kotlin)
             :tabid: java-sdk-kotlin

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-sort-limit-distinct.kt
                :language: java
                :copyable: false

          .. tab:: Java SDK (Java)
             :tabid: java-sdk-java

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-sort-limit-distinct.java
                :language: java
                :copyable: false
     - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Kotlin SDK
             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.query-sort-limit-distinct.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

.. seealso::

>    :ref:`Realm Query Language <kotlin-query-language>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`Realm Query Language (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-query-language>`
```

Deletes
-------

In both SDKs, you can only delete live objects. The Kotlin SDK provides
:kotlin-sdk:`mutableRealm.findLatest()
<{+kotlin-local-prefix+}io.realm/-mutable-realm/find-latest.html>`
to access a live version of any frozen object.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Java SDK (Kotlin)
             :tabid: java-sdk-kotlin

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.deletes.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

          .. tab:: Java SDK (Java)
             :tabid: java-sdk-java

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.deletes.java
                :language: java
                :copyable: false
     - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Kotlin SDK
             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.deletes.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

.. seealso::

>    - :ref:`Delete all Objects of a Type <kotlin-delete-all-objects-of-a-type>`
>    - :ref:`Delete Multiple Objects <kotlin-delete-multiple-objects>`
>    - :ref:`Delete an Object <kotlin-delete-an-object>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - :ref:`Delete all Objects of a Type (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-delete-all-objects-of-a-type>`
   - :ref:`Delete Multiple Objects (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-delete-multiple-objects>`
   - :ref:`Delete an Object (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-delete-an-object>`
```

   :header-rows: 0
   :widths: 50 50
   
   * - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Java SDK (Kotlin)
             :tabid: java-sdk-kotlin

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.notifications.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

          .. tab:: Java SDK (Java)
             :tabid: java-sdk-java

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.notifications.java
                :language: java
                :copyable: false
     - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Kotlin SDK
             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.notifications.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

.. _kotlin-migration-threading:

Threading
---------

With the Java SDK, realms, Realm objects, and results cannot be passed
between threads. The Kotlin SDK freezes these objects by default, making
them thread-safe. Unlike the live objects used by the Java SDK, the
frozen objects found in the Kotlin SDK do not automatically update when

> underlying data changes. You must use notifications to subscribe to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
underlying data changes. With the Kotlin SDK, you must use notifications to subscribe to
```

updates instead.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0
   :widths: 50 50

   * - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Java SDK (Kotlin)
             :tabid: java-sdk-kotlin

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.threading.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

          .. tab:: Java SDK (Java)
             :tabid: java-sdk-java

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/java/local/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.threading.java
                :language: java
                :copyable: false
     - .. tabs::
   
          .. tab:: Kotlin SDK
             :tabid: kotlin-sdk

             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/kotlin/MigrateFromJavaToKotlinSDKTest.codeblock.threading.kt
                :language: kotlin
                :copyable: false

.. seealso::

>    :ref:`Frozen Architecture <kotlin-frozen-architecture>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`Frozen Architecture (Kotlin SDK) <kotlin-frozen-architecture>`
```
